But if you don't agree with both of them, then you're doing the wrong thing.
It's up to you to tell me you're good, give me something you don't want.
Virahanlo sahajjayi asavandhen vallahajanas, ekkaggamapavaso ma maryudaiseyi.
Ajjaon Chea Potho Ujagaro Janas Ajja, Ajjaa Haliddapinjarai Golai Tuhaiyan
Uriraditkhunnu and Ilukkaparao and vice versa, Tithanai, Soolahinna and Devula.
O pommeraamargasavalia nahalu orai, nahasirikanthabhatta, and gathia ki cholli.
On the seventh day, there is a conflict between the eye and the ear, the chin and the mouth.
If you want to learn how to read aloud, don't let me tell you what to read.
Wish you all the best for Vishu, Annamalai and Ghadei.
If you're not here, I'll tell you what to do.
In order to be perfectly fluid, you must be able to move the cages around.
Thou hast brought to thee, O Volante, the third limb, where the Son of Man came forth from heaven.
You will not be able to go to the Kumbh Mela, you will not know what your destination is.
Tavam Avanai and Taha Chandanapanko V Kamimihunai, both of which are similar to Anonalingan Suhaili.
Wherever you are the first member, go and enjoy what you have.
Every time I see a small lime, I think I'm going to lose my hand.
Suijjai Hemanthammi Duggao Phulwasundhane, Dhumakavilane Parimalantuna Junpadane.
Hijjantehi anudinam pachchakkammai vi tummai anugai, vaala puchchijanti anemo kusum kayyam?
Kandujjua Warai Aje Sa Kaverahen, Alsaiarunnavi Mumbai Dayahen Sikhwiya
Give to thee, O thou who art full of compassion, a drink of water, and thou shalt be filled with the Holy Spirit.
Dozens of dogs, dogs, cats, dogs and cats are foodies, and the list goes on.
Choriyar Asadhaluni Ma Putti Bhammasu Andhaarami, Ahirankhijasi Tamabhariya Diu, Ishih.
In general, I would like to know if you have a family, where you live, and what you do.
Tungahn Visheshnarantran, Sarsavanaluddha Samohana, Kaakazhan Bhadana and Thanan Padana Pee Ramanijaja.
Raivirmaljiyo AppattaniAnsanauSahasathi, DhakkantiPiAmalinganeWhence Kulavahu
Paa Adiyi Sohaggan Tavaye Ooh Gotamjammi, Aalavusahassa Singe Achhiyuda Kanduanti.
Then he came to me and said, "O my father, do not be ashamed or laugh!
Hasiyehi uvalamba achuvaarehi khijjiavvaiyin, ansuhi bhandanai aso maggo sumahilana.
In the case of a liquidated property, the lease is backdated and unrecognised.
Once again, he came to Delhi, where he went to Pune last year.
Rehnti kumuadalani nichal lathia matamuhuraniha, sasiaraniasis paniasus gundhi and timirus.
Dharadhuvantamuha lamviyavukka निहियागिवा, वेधनेसुका की सुलाहिना और दिशंति
Do I really want to die, or do I want to live?
Sattalam Malai from Naliniusu Bhamasi Parimalai, Paanu Muasi, Taralattanam Tu Aho Mahuar Jaai Padla Harai.
Muhappundari, achhai santhey, ah raahin se, chhaanpittakuttunachali, adhulidhulile thaane wahin.
Anesu pahi puchhu wahuputhesu puchchiyamai, aam bahajuan or harinetsu bharunamei.
If you do not agree with the above, join hands with your partner.
Wherever Ali believes that he will be successful, those who do not believe him will not be able to laugh.
First of all, it should be straightened out, then it will flow into the right and left sides.
Ha ha, why don't you burn the garbage, burn the skeletons and bury me, Appa?
Come and take a stroll along the banks of the river, wading through the winding roads, taking a bath and taking a dip.
At the end of the day, you will have to wait for the rain to subside, that is, for the hailstones to recede and the fog to settle down.
This is the result of a combination of factors, such as temperature, humidity, and humidity.
Manasiniya paina aanakavola haarappaahabhinna, ujjusurachavaniha vahoara chara dittha
Go to school or go to college, give me lessons and I'll tell you how to do it.
Appahi, if you go there, I'll send you a letter.
They were so full of joy that they sat down together, stared at each other, and held each other's hands.
He came out of the house and said, "This is how I was born."
Truth is the ultimate truth.
Stay alive.
Life is non-violence.
Jai ho.
People are very important.
I do not know.
Everyone knows everything.
Everyone knows it.
Death is everything.
Know all the Panchavatams.
All know the Dhamma.
Everyone knows it.
Panchavritti is known to all.
Dhamma is the knowledge of all.
There should be Panchamahavrati.
Let's know more.
I want to know everything.
All people know non-violence.
All the Panchavatams are required.
The Dhamma is the knowledge of all the Panchavatams.
Everyone knows it.
You all know it.
Let's know.
Vijja is known to all.
Knowing dhamma non-violence is Panchavrata.
When the mind is happy, the actions are pleasant.
Appamatto saya hohi, maa pamayang kuchhi.
Non-violence is the supreme good, violence is the ultimate evil.
Whoever knows Appa, let him know, Appa seve paramappa.
May all be Kallans, may all be saints, may every one be a Punam.
He drank all his life, he suffered from violence and cowardice.
Listen very carefully, be serious, be intelligent.
Wherever there is truth, there is non-violence, wherever there is ahimsa, this is the supreme dhamma.
Daana dehi, punna lehi.
Stay blessed always.
Truth is the supreme good.
I will do it in a couple of days.
Read to your child.
If you know, you know.
Wherever you go, dry yourself.
Whatever you give, take the money.
Wherever you find it, dry it.
Who is your father?
Jivdaya paramo dhammo, violence paramo pavo.
Live and let live
It is because of the universe.
Greed is the cause of everything.
Seal - virtues are supreme.
Know Ahimsa Dhame Panchamahavrati.
People know all the Panchamahavatam.
Everyone knows the Panchavatam.
People know Panchvrati, non-violence.