But both the poor man and the poor girl do not know how to behave. So do not neglect the good and the bad.
You live here, I see you here, And you are doing well. In your absence someone has given her a limp.
In separation she endures, In long absence She is dear to all men, In the absence of a companion She averts death.
Look at your husband. Look at him. He's a handsome man. Look, he's got a round head of gooseflesh.
The God of Love's arrows pierce through the jagged arrows of the python's tail and pierce its beak.
Oh! pomora! The plowman's daughter - in - law lifts the plowshare of the banyan Tree, Which, with her bare breasts, Resides in the hollow of her neck.
All the way down the road, Blind and pallid, The bee stumbles on top of the snake.
"Laughing at the man who says" "I'm pregnant," "The wretched girl says:" "It's my brother in law." ""
I don't want to see your face. The whole hall is empty. I want to break it again With my fingers.
Dear girl, You're not the only one who loves me. Without you I'd be miserable.
You silly girl, You wobbly caged girl, After a long day of looking for the only way to escape.
You wobble, That limp limb trembles, That the stream of tears flows down your face Like a river in spate.
Foolish girl, Why are you laughing all the time? Your hips are shaking, You're sweating profusely, But you can't seem to find the right place For yourself.
You are not the same as that moon - eyed woman Who, even in the heat of summer, Received the pleasure of staring at her naked lover.
Whichever member of your family is behind you, Who is the abuser? Whom do you trust? What do you admire about yourself?
Grabbing the bunch of raisins With your fingertips around your neck, You'd better wash off the fragrance From your hands.
Sweating profusely, Her breasts twitch, Her cheeks quiver, And her thighs twitch.
You look at me with such longing, You turn your back on me, And ask me again, Whom shall I tell?
The kandujjua bridegroom is so devoted to his wife that he taught her daily the rudiments of sloppy cooking.
The one who asks nicely And the one who cries rudely Asks politely, Doesn't love you at all, Just makes fun of me.
There are dozens of things you can do, There are thousands of things to do, And food you can eat, So please, please, take care of yourself. It's my fault.
Stupid girl, Don't be so naïve: You're just trying to hide your face From the dark sky, But you're staring at it With your eyes glued to the lamp.
Please, don't be so hasty. Don't get me wrong, my dear, You stupid bastard. What makes you so angry? It's your own fault.
The fragrance of the sesame seed, Like the sweetness of mustard seed, Is pleasant to the taste of bitter nectar, And like the drop of a breast.
Loose eyelids, Close your eyes, Look at the lotus blossom Placed in front of you.
At the sound of his feet clapping, The gooseflesh dances in unison, Seeming to sniff out the horn of his beloved.
At this moment her husband came in. She turned her face away and smiled shyly, Stretching out her broad smile.
Laughs, sighs, moans, groans, and groans: That is the way of a virtuous woman.
Don't turn your back on me, you silly girl. Stop pulling at my skirt, You'll ruin my life.
The plowman's son has returned, The oxen have returned, And I will bear his name no longer.
Look! The jasmine bud is twining like a pearl Of nectar, Seems to sigh As if it were a knot in its own knot.
The stream is torrential, The river is long, The road is narrow, The roads are impassable, And the streets are deserted.
Tell me, am I right? Don't let me die. I'll live, please. This isn't the way to live.
A swarm of bees is hovering Over you, Placing a garland of pearls on your forehead. Wait a minute, honeybees, If you happen to see one next door, You'd better stop.
Her face was smeared with red ghee And her cheeks were streaked with red.
Eyes wide open, Hands clutching at her hips, Eyes closed, Hands wide open. The deer in my arms Doesn't seem to notice The man in my heart.
As the young bride leans to her right And the young man to his left Waites for the new bride To join hands With her lover.
Whatever people think is the fruit of the mango tree, The same people laugh at it When it's young.
Her breasts tremble As she licks her husband's cheek, Her cheeks quiver, And her thighs twitch.
Hey, hey, why don't you burn the jasmine flowers in the garland? It's just like burning a bunch of skeletons in a fire.
The plowman's daughter - in - law steps in front of him, Her hair hanging loose from the girdle of her husband's bow.
At the end of the night The farmer's wife kneels before him, Whispering loudly As the summer heats up the house in the thickets.
How can I put up with a man who refuses to give in To the consequences of his actions When he has no one to turn to?
The man's wife looked at him with a glint in her eye, Her lips quivering, And her face shining with the rays of the sun.
The rainbow says to the people, Why are you so hot When the clouds are closing in? Tell me, my dear, How can I grow old Without you?
Appahi, The way you look at me, Doesn't bother me. I can't help but laugh When I see you smile.
I could not believe my eyes When he looked at me With such a heavy heart That he could not help laughing.
She came running out of the house, Her face ashen as ever, And said :'What do you mean she can't see you again? '
Suffering is the ultimate truth.
Be pure and live.
Non - violence is the supreme way of life.
Dharma is victory.
In the world, wrong views are important.
I don't know wrong views.
He knows everything.
He knows all suffering.
Death is everything.
He knows everything through the five vows.
He knows all Dharma.
Everything is known through Dharma.
The follower of five vows knows everything.
Dharma knows all wrong views.
The world needs the five great vows.
The world knows wrong views.
He knows all wrong views.
In the world, everyone knows non - violence.
The five vows are everything in Dharma.
Through Dharma, he knows everything about the five vows.
He knows all suffering.
He knows everything.
The world knows karma.
He knows all human beings.
Non - violence is known in Dharma through the five vows.
One's mind is pure, one's actions are pure.
Apamato saya hohi, ma pamaaya karechi.
Non - violence is the supreme good, violence is ultimate evil.
One who knows oneself knows the world, one who serves others is supreme.
May there be well - being for all, may there be peace for all and may there also be prosperity for all.
Love consumes all living beings; there is no violence, nor is there any cowardice.
Listen, speak loudly, think seriously; this is the mark of wisdom.
Where there is truth, there is non - violence; where there is Non - violence, there's truth; this is the highest dharma.
Charity is the body, virtue is the law.
May there be well - being for all.
To speak the truth is the highest happiness.
Whatever I have to do, I will do.
Don't be naïve even if your children are studying.
If you know yourself, you know everything.
Where there is love, there is happiness.
One who gives gives receives wealth.
Where there is love, there is happiness.
Purify yourself.
Compassion is the highest dharma, violence is the supreme sin.
The soul is eternal.
Wrong views are the cause of the world.
Greed is the root cause of everything.
Seal - The virtues are supreme.
The observer of five great vows knows non - violence in Dharma.
He knows everything in the world through the five great vows.
He knows everything about the five vows.
In the world, the follower of five vows knows non - violence.