But the poor man's anger Is compounded by the fact that he does not know how to behave. So do not trouble the discerning eye By remaining motionless.
I live in your heart, I see you with my own eyes, And I drink your blood So that someone can drink it without you.
In separation He is able to endure As long as He remains dear To those who are lonely, For when they are together Death is certain.
Look at your husband. Look at him. He's a handsome man. Look, he's got round breasts.
See how the God of Love stares at the poor girl Whose face is smeared with red ghee And whose hair is tied in a bangle.
Look! The plowman's daughter Removes the nail marks From her hip bone And puts them on her thighs To hide the marks on her cheeks.
The whole horizon disappears Like a jumble of gooseflesh Stirred by the rays of the Vindhya.
Laughing at the way people misbehave, She says: "Please, my poor girl, Don't be so touchy."
I don't want to see your face. The whole hall is deserted. I can't believe the clock is ticking again.
You're the only one here Who loves me so much That I'd rather be with someone than without you.
You silly girl, After a long day of looking around you look like a caged parrot.
You wobble, That limp limb has grown pale As the stream of tears running down your cheek.
Goose pimples, Coughing up your nose, Running out of breath, Can't you see That I've got a long way to go?
You are not so much a fan of the moon as a lover of pleasure, As one who, even in the heat of summer, finds pleasure in the blossom of his fairies.
Whichever member of your family is behind you, Who is going to kiss that person, What do you expect from him, That he is still around?
Grabbing the bunch of raisins That had stuck to my hand From behind my back, I could not help but smell The fragrance of my husband's hand.
Sweating profusely, Her skirt hangs down from her skirt, Like a blanket of smoke rising from the fire of love.
You look at me with such longing, You turn your back on me, And ask me again, Whom shall I tell?
The ravenous bridegroom is so busy these days That he cannot stop crying. One day he will teach her how to weep.
Crying all the time She loves you, Asking all sorts of questions, But saying nothing to me Makes her laugh.
There are dozens of things you can do, And yes, there are food, And then there are treats. So please, I've got a bad feeling.
Stupid girl, Don't be so naïve: You're just trying to hide your feelings From the dark side. Your eyes are glued to your face Like a lamp in midday.
Don't get me wrong, my dear, You're not worthless. What makes you think I'm worthless When you tell me you're worthless?
The sound of the trumpet, The crash of the horn, And the fall of the breastplate Are also pleasurable.
Loose - hanging eyelashes, Eyes closed, Eyes fixed on her husband, Take a bath in the backyard of her parents'house Where all the flowers bloom.
At the sound of his steps The go - between says: "Go - between!" To which the farmer replies: "No, you're not." With a trembling sigh He sniffs at his little daughter's lips.
At this moment her husband came in her arms. She turned her face away, Looking him straight in the eye And smiled shyly As he took her in his arms.
Laughs, sighs, moans, groans, whispers, mutters, whisperes, whisps, mutterings: Such is the way of a virtuous woman.
Don't turn your back on me, silly girl, Just pull the skirt off my hips So that I don't look at you again.
The plowman's son has returned, And the oxen have returned, Yet my name endures forever.
Rehnti kumu, Rolling stick of lotus, Sweating with sweat running down her cheeks, Looks like a woman with a lump in her throat.
The stream is torrential, The river is long, The road is bumpy, And the roads are impassable.
Tell me, am I right? I will die, I will live. But, my dear, This is not the way to live.
Foolish girl, Why waste your time picking flowers And garlanding them? It's your turn, Honey, To steal the joys of love.
Her face was smeared with red ghee, Her cheeks darkened by the rays of the sun, And her breasts streaked with gooseflesh.
Eyes wide open, Hands clutching at her hips, Eyes closed, Hands wide open. The deer in my arms Doesn't seem to notice The man in my heart.
When the plowman's wife took hold of the young bridegroom's hand As he leapt to his feet, He could not help laughing But clap his hands in agreement.
Whatever people think of you As a fruit ripe for harvest, Those same people laugh at you Like women at a wedding.
Her breasts tremble As she presses her thighs against her husband's thighs.
Ha ha, why didn't he do something to burn the jasmine That was still burning In the middle of the kankelika bush?
At the sound of her voice The traveler's daughter - in - law stepped in, Her bracelets hanging loose, And her bracelets falling from her hips.
At last the landowner's wife appeared, Surprised at the sight of the closed door. In the scorching heat The rustle of thunder From the roof of the house Began to resound.
How can I put up with it If my husband refuses to part With the spoils of love That come from sitting on my lap?
The woman's eyes were glued to her bright, shiny face, Like the eyelashes of a doe on a buffalo's back.
"The lion says to the man," "Because it is hot there, Mother - in - law! How can I grow old Without letting him touch me?" ""
Appahiye, The moment I see you she won't bow down to me. I will never forget that look On your face When you tried to stop her laughing.
I looked at him with such longing That I could not believe my eyes Were still smeared with tears.
"When she came out of the house She was so anxious to leave That she said:" "No," "Saying that she could not bear to look at him again."
Suffering is the ultimate truth.
Be pure and live.
Non - violence is the supreme way of life.
Dharma is victory.
In the world, wrong views are important.
I don't know wrong views.
He knows everything.
He knows all suffering.
Death is everything.
He knows everything through the five vows.
He knows all Dharma.
Everything is known through Dharma.
The follower of five vows knows everything.
Dharma knows all wrong views.
The world needs the five great vows.
The world knows wrong views.
He knows all wrong views.
In the world, everyone knows non - violence.
The five vows are everything in Dharma.
Through Dharma, he knows everything about the five vows.
He knows all suffering.
He knows everything.
The world knows karma.
He knows all human beings.
Non - violence is known in Dharma through the five vows.
One's mind is pure, one's actions are pure.
Apamato saya hohi, ma pamaaya karechi.
Non - violence is the supreme good, violence is ultimate evil.
One who knows oneself knows the world, one who serves others is the supreme self.
May there be well - being for all, may there be peace for all and may all be virtuous.
Love consumes all life; there is no violence and no one should be harmed.
Listen, speak loudly, think seriously; this is the mark of a wise man.
Where there is truth, there is non - violence; where there is Non - violence, there's truth; this is the highest dharma.
Charity is the body, virtue is the law.
May there be well - being for all.
To speak the truth is the highest happiness.
Whatever I do, I do with it.
Even if you teach your children, they will not be learned.
If you know yourself, you know everything.
Where there is love, there is happiness.
One who gives gives receives wealth.
Where there is friendship, there is happiness.
Meditate on yourself.
Compassion is the highest dharma, violence is the supreme sin.
The soul is immortal.
Wrong views are the cause of the world.
Greed is the root cause of everything.
Seal - The virtues are supreme.
The observer of five great vows knows non - violence in Dharma.
He knows everything in the world through the five great vows.
He knows everything about the five vows.
In the world, the follower of five vows knows non - violence.