But both the poor man and the poor woman, Unable to bear the humiliation, Defy the steady stream of tears That flood their eyes.
You live here, I see you here, And you're fine. In your absence, someone has given her a limp.
The lonely traveler's wife endures the separation, And his mother's death reeks of loneliness.
Look at your husband, He's a handsome man. Look, he's got a round head of gooseflesh.
The God of Love's arrows pierce through the jagged arrows of his bow And pierce them with a sharp arrow.
Look! The palm tree is swaying, The branches of the neem tree are swaying And the grasshopper's tail is curling around its neck.
The whole of the world is staring at you, Eyes wide open, Bees hovering and bees flutter about, Making your face look like a beehive.
Laughing at the way people make fun of me, They say I look like a woman with long hair.
Don't touch me If you don't want to see your face. The whole hall is deserted. I'll break it again With my fingers.
You're not the only one who loves me So I won't be without you. So I'll leave you alone.
Unsure how long you'll be away, You wobbly caged girl.
You wobble, That limp limb trembles, As if it were a stream of sweat Running down its back.
Foolish girl, Why are you still laughing When you're so angry You can't take it anymore? You're already angry. What makes you so angry?
You are not so much the lover of the moon As the one who is hot on the other's eyelids.
Whichever side of the fence you're on, Who's that girl? Whoever it is that's holding on to, What is there to admire?
Sniffing the scent of freshly squeezed nectar, I tried to wash my hands away.
Sucking on the needle, Hemantammi sighs, Smokes her way through the thick smoke, Looks like a bunch of gooseflesh hovering over her.
You look at me with such longing, You turn your face away, And ask me, Whom shall I tell?
The kandujjua bridegroom Is a coward today, And the poor girl, Taken aback at the sight of him, Has taught herself to beg.
The one who asks all manner of questions Makes you cry, But the one who says nothing Makes me laugh.
Dozens of times you look at me, And a dozen times I look at you, And then I see you. So please, please, don't be so rude.
Stupid girl, Don't be so naïve: Your face is smeared with red ghee. Look! You're staring at me With your eyes glued to the lamp.
Come on, I've got no business with you, You stupid bastard. Why don't you go and see him? It won't hurt.
The fragrance of the sesame seeds, Like the fragrant nectar of a mustard seed, Is delightful Even in the sight of one's breasts.
Loose eyelids, Close your eyes, And close your eyes As if you were holding a lotus.
At the sound of her feet The girl sighs, Her feet clenched in delight, As if they were a bunch of gooseflesh.
That's the way my husband looks at me, His face above my eyes, Laughing shyly As he stretches out his arms.
Laughing, sighing, Whispering, Crying, Filling with tears: Such is the way of a virtuous woman.
Don't turn your back on me, You silly girl, If you don't take care of yourself You'll find a way to hide your feelings.
Once again the plowman's wife came, Then the oxen fell at her feet. Even now, though she is alive again, I cannot bear to lose my name.
Rehnti kumu, The stick of neem twigs Is twining like a beehive, Like a knot in a cotton bunny's neck.
The stream bends, The stream twists, And the tall tree branches grow taller. How strange it is To lie motionless in the dark.
Tell me, am I right? Let me die, I'll live. Don't worry, my dear, This is not my life.
Foolish buffalo, Don't touch the pearl garland That hangs over your head. Wait a minute, honey, If you happen to see it, You'll lose it.
Her face was smeared with red ghee And her cheeks were streaked with red.
Eyes wide open, Hands clutching at my ears, Eyes closed, Eyes wide shut, I can't take it. The deer in my arms Doesn't seem to mind.
When the young bride turned her back on him, Her hands clasped in a tight embrace As if in a tangle of kisses.
Whatever a man thinks of As soon as he has had his fill of fruit, That man must be laughing all the time.
Her breasts tremble, Her thighs twitching, Her hands clutching her thighs, As if to show off her breasts.
Hey, hey, why don't you just put out the burning stubble That's burning in the middle of the mangrove thicket?
The traveler's daughter - in - law steps in front of him, Whose arms are tightly clasped around her, As if to show her the way.
At the end of the night A stranger knocks on the door, Whispering loudly As if it were a house fire.
How can I put up with a man who refuses to give in To the consequences of his actions When he has no one to turn to?
The man's wife looked at him with a glint in her eye, Her lips quivering, Her cheeks shining.
"" "Tell me, my dear," "said the cowherd." "How can I help it If it's hot?" "Without telling me, Why am I growing up?"
Appahiye, The way you look at me, Doesn't bother me. I can't help but laugh When you try again.
I could not believe my eyes When he looked at me With such complete surprise That he could not help laughing.
"She came running out of the house," "It's too late, my dear." "She said in a low voice:" "What do you mean you haven't had your period yet?" ""
Suffering is the ultimate truth.
Be pure and live.
Non - violence is the supreme way of life.
Dharma is victory.
People's wrong views are important.
I don't know what is wrong.
He knows everything.
He knows all suffering.
Death is everything.
He knows everything through the five vows.
He knows all dharma.
Everything is known in Dharma.
The follower of five vows knows everything.
Dharma knows all wrong views.
The world needs the observer of five great vows.
The world knows wrong views.
He knows all wrong views.
In the world, all know non - violence.
The five vows are everything in Dharma.
In Dharma, everything is known through the five vows.
He knows all suffering.
He knows everything.
He knows what to do.
He knows all human beings.
Non - violence is known in Dharma through the five vows.
One's mind is pure, one's actions are pure.
Apamato saya hohi, ma pamaaya karechi.
Non - violence is the supreme good, violence is ultimate evil.
One who knows oneself knows the world; one who serves others knows the supreme self.
May there be well - being for all, may there be peace for all and may all be virtuous.
Drink water for all life, do not do violence to anyone.
Listen, speak loudly, think seriously; this is the mark of a wise man.
Where there is truth, there is non - violence; where there is ahimsa, There is truth; this is the highest dharma.
Charity is the body, virtue is the law.
May there be well - being for all.
Truth is the supreme bliss.
Whatever I have to do, I will do.
Don't be naïve when you read to your children.
If you know yourself, you know everything.
Where there is love, there is happiness.
One who gives takes wealth.
Where there is love, there is happiness.
Treat yourself with kindness.
Compassion is the highest dharma, violence is the supreme sin.
The soul is immortal.
Wrong views are the cause of the world.
Greed is the root cause of everything.
Seal - The virtues are supreme.
The observer of five great vows knows non - violence in Dharma.
He knows everything in the world through the five great vows.
He knows everything about the five vows in the world.
In the world, the follower of five vows knows non - violence.