"Bow before Siva’s offering to Twilight, The water held in his cupped hand. Reflecting Gauris moonlike face, Now flushed with jealous anger, It looks more like a crimson lotus"
Shame on those who cannot appreciate This ambrosial Prakrit poetry But pore instead Over treatises on love
"Among countless elegant poems, King Hala, patron of poets, Has selected seven hundred."
Look at that heron Standing absolutely motionless On the lotus leaf. It is just like mother of pearl In a setting of spotless emerald.
"While making love, women go on enticing men Up to the very end When their eyes, Long and oval like the petals of the waterlily, Close"
"Look, mother-in-law! That lovely mass of lotuses Used to be the most beautiful thing in our village, But now winter has made them look Like a sesame field just after harvest"
Cheer up! Don’t cry for the paddy turning white. There’s the field of hemp in bloom Like a dancer with her face painted yellow!
"Friend, this is just the way things happen— Stop your tears, don’t turn your face away— Like the tendrils of a young cucumber, One’s affections twine around an object That does not stay."
"When their little son Climbed on her husband’s back As he knelt at her feet, She could not help laughing Despite her fierce anger."
Don’t get annoyed: There’s nothing wrong with your cooking. That the fire won’t burn but only smokes Is because it wants to inhale your breath That has the fragrance of red trumpetflowers.
"The husband laughed at his wife’s face Which, smudged with soot That stuck to her hand from kitchen work, Looked more than ever like the moon."
When her friends asked the young wife Who was pregnant for the first time What she craved most She simply looked at her husband
"Sweet moon, Crest jewel of the sky, Beauty spot on the face of night, Touch me with the very same rays With which you’ve touched my most dearly beloved."
"First let my dear husband come home, Then let me give him a scolding, And then let him do his best to bring me round. There must be someone who can get all three wishes."
"Young calf, Blushing red as a tender mango shoot, Running with ears pricked Towards the house of your desire, Assume the cool whiteness of a bull!"
"Dearest, I know you are not really asleep, Just keeping your eyes closed. I can see goose pimples rising as I kiss your cheek. I won’t be late again."
"Don’t bother about your makeup, girl, Just go to him quickly, while he wants you. Once his longing is over He won’t give you a thought."
"I will never forget how, When her face was smeared with red ghee, We kissed, Carefully pouting our lips So that our noses and foreheads Wouldn’t meet."
"I refuse to believe that she who, Cheeks flushed with excitement, Is so demanding while making love Can really suit him, However meek she may be next mornin"
Being separated from what is dear And being forced to look at what isn’t Are two causes of grief. I bow to your good breeding Which demands that you act as you do.
You would not be so touchy If you knew the pain of falling asleep beside one’s lover And waking up in the middle of the night To discover that the bed is empty.
"After the quarrel neither give in But feigning sleep, lie still, Hold their breath and listen. Who will win the bout?"
At whichever part of her body Her husband’s younger brother Aims the tender twig Gooseflesh raises a palisade of sticks.
"Today, As I think of the pleasures I’ve had Without him, The thunder of the first rain clouds Sounds like the executioner’s drum."
"Headman’s son, How heartless you are! Shying away from your wife You rarely show yourself, Like a worm in a neem berry. Yet because of you The whole village is pining away."
"Lying on his breast, Rough with the scars of many a wound, The headman’s wife finds it difficult to rest, But his village sleeps sound."
"What good old-fashioned honesty! But really, my dear, You’re the only one who goes in for it. Nowadays people think one thing and say another."
"What do you think you are doing, Embracing me from behind? First you set fire to my heart And then you start burning my back With these hot sighs of remorse."
The good wife takes all day To explain to her importunate young brother-in-law The paintings on the walls of their house That depict the adventures of LaksmanRamas devoted younger brother.
"Young and attractive and her husband abroad, Living in poverty at a busy crossroad, With loose women in the neighborhood, —You’re not telling me she’s still chaste?"
"Protecting the self-image of her husband, Who is poor but proud of his breeding, The wife scorns her own relatives As they arrive with rich presents."
Her husband is at hand And the festival in full swing. Yet she delays putting on her jewels To hearten the woman next door Who is poor And whose husband has still not returned.
"She cherishes her heart Because you live in it, Her eyes Because with them she can gaze at you, Even her body Because it grows thin in your absence."
"To fall in love with a man who returns your love, One who is full of kindness and affection, Makes sense. But to give one’s heart to a man who is utterly heartless Is laughable."
"If a man shows initiative There is the prospect of either wealth or death. Even if he lacks initiative, death is certain, Wealth is not."
"Hope helps one bear The burning fire of separation From the man one loves. But, mother, when the man one loves Lives in the same village yet keeps away, That is worse than death."
While making love to another woman His beloved will come to mind Both when he sees and doesn’t see A familiar trait.
"Silly girl, Youth races past Like a river in spate, The days are fleeting And the nights unreturning. So why this stubborn sulkiness?"
"Every one knows the hardhearted lover Leaves at dawn. Venerable Night, stretch on So that morning will not come."
As her husband is about to depart She goes from door to door Asking all the women who suffer from absent husbands For the secret of surviving the farewell.
"O god, please Let my husband form other attachments, For men who have experience of one person only No longer appreciate what’s good and what’s bad."
"Wayfarer, Your shadow is hiding beneath your body, Not showing one bit of itself for fear of the midday sun, So why don’t you too take a rest?"
"By bringing that man Who keeps his distance To ask me how I’m feeling, You have proved a blessing. Now, fever, if you take my life, I will not complain."
"Why should anyone care Whether my fever has abated or not? You, my dear, asking how I am And smelling so fragrant, Do not touch me who stink of fever."
"Your long hair sways like a peacock’s fan, Your thighs quiver, your eyes half close, With long pauses you sort of play the man. Now do you see what hard work it is For a man?"
"Love Estranged and patched up again, Once its dissolution is plain to see, Will never taste right again Like water that has boiled then cooled"
"Thinking she hears the twang of her husband’s bow Above the crashing thunder, The captive wife tells the royal hostages To wipe away their tears."
"It is only the echo of a thunderclap From an early rain cloud. I suppose you were hoping it might be the twang Of your husband’s bow, For why else is the hair on your body bristling?"
Because she put up with it all The clumsy youth went on making love to her So that her limbs now look like wilting acacia flowers.
"Only today he departed, And today his women stay up late Dyeing the banks of the Goda Yellow with turmeric soap."
She does not complain to her husband About his brother’s advances Not because she herself has impure thoughts But because he is so touchy And she is afraid of causing a split in the family. Instead she pines away.
"Imagining how it was when her lover was with her, The woman suddenly remembered how angry she had been And raged against thin air. Far from laughing, her friends wept for her."
"Dealings with sympathetic people, Even if inconclusive, Are, I think, more pleasant Than dealings concluded With their opposite."
Look! A tender shoot has sprouted from the stone of a ripe mango. It looks like an eel hiding in a half-opened oyster shell.
Look at that spider climbing down from the rafters Along a thread spun from between its feet: It looks like a mimosa flower strung on an invisible string.
With cooing doves hidden high up among the rafters The temple groans like a man suffering from cramp.
"If you are not his lover, How come you sleep every day, Your limbs as weak As those of a newborn buffalo calf, Drunk on its mother’s milk?"
"The winter nights are long, For months your husband’s been away, So you must be sleeping well. How odd that you should fall asleep by day."
"If that woman, who stepped on your foot As she leapt away from the mud, Were so indifferent, Why, my dear, is your body now covered With gooseflesh?"
"Once the festival starts its glamor is over, Like the full moon in broad daylight, Like sex which in the end loses its savor, Or like gratitude without a steady stream of gifts."
Already at her wedding Paravati’s friends knew she would be happy When Siva tossed aside The snake bracelet that frightened her.
"What you see are the heights of the Vindhya Painted black by the forest fires of summer, Not fresh rain clouds. So do not worry about your husband’s return."
Give as much affection As you can muster. For not everyone can bear to suffer The withdrawal of kindness.
How can a woman Who for five whole days Has been the lover of such an attractive man Ask for one day more? One cannot feast on dainties.
Whatever part of my body he stares at I cover. At the same time I want him to see it.
See how the woman’s indignation at her husband Escapes with a soft sigh Like sand from a clenched fist.
Look! A flock of parrots falling from the sky Like a necklace of rubies and emeralds Slipping from the throat of Sri in heaven.
More than his absence abroad Or my wretchedness here at home What pains me is my husband returning Without quite reaching his goal.
I will never forget how she shook her head When I tried to kiss her lips And her tresses flew in all directions. Her face looked like a lotus Surrounded by a swarm of bees Excited by its fragrance.
"When her rivals take a freezing cold bath Before dressing for the festival, The youngest wife shows her privileged position By not bothering."
You won’t make anyone happy By sitting here Removing with a bamboo needle The traces of turmeric soap From the meshes of your filigree bracelet.
"Love vanishes Through not seeing enough of one another, Through seeing too much of one another, Through spiteful gossip, And sometimes just like that."
Thinking how wretched it is To be sagging over her stomach After having once been prominent —That’s how her breasts must have got dark nipples.
"Lovely woman, The farmer has become so thin On your account That his good wife, though jealous, Now acts as go-between."
"Though you visit us only out of courtesy, You rejoice our heart. What delight you must give to those Whom you visit with genuine fondness."
"While he was blowing on the hand That still stung from the slap I gave him, I could not help laughing And put my other hand around his neck."
"Proud lady, When he approached you You relentlessly turned away, But the gooseflesh on your back Shows that in your heart You are prepared to face him again."
She knows how to give expression To what remains of the anger he tried to conciliate By acting with reserve Even when they are alone together.
"How dare you! And which offenses am I supposed to forgive, My darling: Those you have committed, Those you are committing, Or those you are about to commit?"
Women only like men Who mask their authority And grovel like slaves At their angry lovers’ feet. All the rest make pitiful husbands.
"Ungrateful bee, Once you would not think Of enjoying yourself with other flowers But now that the jasmine is heavy with fruit You forsake her."
"Aunt, A glimpse of that man, Whom one could never tire of staring at, Is like drinking water in a dream: It has not quenched my thirst."
"Though he may for a moment Slip one’s mind One still remembers a person. But love, Once it is but a memory, Vanishes For it is something immaterial."
"The poor girl cherishes the teeth marks You have just left on her cheeks Like a pledge, Protecting them with a fence of gooseflesh."
"The mango puts out new shoots, The fragrance of liquor fills the air, An agreeable breeze is blowing from the south, But business must mean more to him And clearly he loves me no longer."
"After making love, He took a step, then turned And took me in his arms again. That moment I felt what it was to be a wife whose husband is abroad And he what it was to be that woman’s husband."
"A man so handsome One cannot tire of looking at him, Who shares one’s troubles as well as one’s joys, Proves faithful and returns one’s love —Such a man is only to be got through merit Accumulated over many lives."
If one loves a man He gives pleasure even while causing pain. Though wounded by a lover’s nails Breasts thrill with gooseflesh.
"Try though she would to keep it, The advice given by her friends Escaped from her heart That was shattered by the arrow of the God of Love."
"O sweetwood tree, Whose branches, bowed by the weight of blossom, Reach to the ground In the broad thickets on the bank of the Goda, Do me a favor And shed your leaves slowly."
"Weeping, The woman gathers the very last sweetwood flowers Now painful to behold, Like the bones of a relative On the funeral pyre."
"Heart, After getting stuck here and there, Like a log Borne along by the current of a shallow stream, One day you will be fuel for someone."
The red That during the night her husband Removed from her lips Appears the next morning In her co-wives’ sleepless eyes.
When the poor plowman’s daughter Saw her courteous husband standing on the river bank She clambered up By the most difficult route.
"I will never forget, Once when he lay in silence at my feet, What pleasure I got from twisting his hair round my toe And pulling hard."
See how the winter traveler At the gate of the village temple Jabs at the smoldering heap of husks As if it were a bear.
"Aunt, Not a lotus is damaged, Not a goose has been scared away, But someone has pushed a cloud on its back In the village pond."
How frustrated he must feel To threaten to leave again. It makes his young wife languish As though she’d been given a drug.
"As his mother Yasoda says: “Krsna a is still a child,” The women of Vraja smile to themselves, Their eyes fixed on his face."
"Placing herself next to Rasha On the pretext of praising the way she dances, The cunning cowgirl manages to kiss Krsna, Who is reflected in his favorite’s cheek."
