But both the doe and the stag Are unhappy with each other. So what have you to do with your sulking eyes Which are immovably fixed?
You live in my heart, I see you now, And you do well. Someone threw a limb at you To save your life.
In the absence of affection The lonely traveler is unable to bear separation, But when he travels alone He is doomed to death.
Look at yo\1ः Your husband is high. Your eyes are red, Tears flow down your cheeks.
Seeing clouds piling up in the west The gods turned their backs on her.
Look at that mango blossom Rolling down her cheeks Like a snake hit on the head.
All over the horizon The passers - by, Blind with gooseflesh and spiky with their beaks, Face to face, See how the Vindhya Clouds break up.
Laughing at the man who misbehaves, The husband replies, "" I hate being bossy.
Your face does not show the slightest trace of disgust. Yet, like a dead body, It seems to me that the clock is ticking Again.
You're the only one who loves me so much, I could never love anyone without you.
Without leaving her bedside for a moment The moment she sees you slipping away From her bracelet.
You stare at her limp body As the stream of tears flows down her cheeks.
Thinking how wretched it is To be sagging over your thighs After a long day of sulking, One cannot help getting angry. So why should I brush my teeth?
You are not so much a fan of the moon as of the hot, scorching summer heat with which you indulge your lover.
Who is jealous of what is left, What do you hope to gain, That you will treasure what is still?
When he took me in his arms And kissed me on the mouth I slept soundly, I could not help smelling the scent of his hand.
Sweating with the pleasure of blowing into the fire, The girl's thick, fragrant hair Is like a column of smoke rising from the fire of love.
Wrapped in her feelings of embarrassment The next day She turned her back on you, Asking who I was and what I had to say.
The poor girl is now so busy making love That she has learned how to sulk every day Despite her husband's absence
The weeping girl asks how you are, But tells me that there is nothing funny about it.
Dozing off after a meal: You can eat anything at once, Anyway, He's really intoxicated And that makes me feel bad.
Stupid girl, Don't be so naïve: Your eyes are glued to your dark breasts, They seem to see the light of day Just like that.
No, I'm off. Don't touch me If you value your life. What makes you so angry? You'd better stay calm.
The sound of the trumpet, The crash of the horn, And the fall of her breasts Are also pleasures in themselves.
Covered all over with gooseflesh, Visibly annoyed at the sight of his wife, The plowman is consumed by grief.
See how the gooseflesh hovers over the cowherd's feet, Like a banner proclaiming the happiness of his wife.
When she saw him face to face, Her husband was embarrassed, And smiled, Her skirt wrapped twice around her thighs.
Laughing and waving, Crying and moaning are the pleasures of a true woman. For such a woman is a blessing in disguise.
Don't cover your face with your shawl. Stop dragging your feet And gently lower yourself into the water.
Resurrecting the wrong side of the fence, Which led to the collapse of the dam, The warrior's mother again begrudgingly accepted my name.
Long - lashed, dusted with flour, Like a bunch of peacock's tail - feathers Waved by the conjuror to distract his audience, The water held in his cupped hand.
With fingertips clutching the river bank, And her hair hanging loose around her face, The landowner's daughter - in - law is burning with hunger.
Tell me, am I right? He will surely die, He will live, But this isn't the case With Cinehamggo.
Foolish girl, You have no water, Just place a garland of pearls On your head. If the water flows out, It's as if the jasmine has beaten the drum.
Her face is smeared with red ghee, Her breasts strewn with gooseflesh, Like jewels pierced by the rays of the sun.
Look! The travelers ask how he is, Then wipe away his tears. The deer in our herd Do not mention the hunter's name.
When the young bride turned her back on her husband, Her hands clung to the knot of love That had been sewn together
Whatever people think of you, That you are the fruit of affection, There are those who laugh at you As much as at them.
Her breasts, Long and oval like the breasts of a nymph, Reach towards her husband's chest As if they were bracelets.
Ha ha, Why did you manage to kindle the fire In the middle of the rainy season By burning the jasmine flowers?
When the traveler's wife came home She was completely at a loss What to do with the bracelets His wife had put on For hanging around By cross - questioning His patience.
At last the landowner's wife came, Staring at the deserted gate, As if there were a thunderclap In the scorching summer heat.
When separated from her lover The poor widow gives in to the demands of her husband's advances, But does not explain how she ended up with him?
Reflected in the woman's cheek Covered with fresh tooth marks, The wife's eyes were glued to her bright and shiny face.
Rain tells the people That summer is hot When the clouds are thick, Except when they come to me I don't know why I'm growing.
Ungrateful as I am, I will not bow down to you. My face will never look the same As before.
I gaze at her with such longing That I can't even remember what I saw in her arms.
He came out of the house, took me in his arms, and said: "" No, "" But if I tell you the truth, You will surely be forgiven.
Grief is the ultimate truth.
Be pure and win.
Non - violence is the supreme way of life.
Victory to Dharma.
In this world, wrong views are important.
I don't know wrong views.
He knows all life.
He knows all suffering.
Death is everything.
He knows everything through the five vows.
He knows all Dharma.
Everything is known through Dharma.
The follower of five vows knows everything.
Dharma knows all wrong views.
In the world, the observer of five great vows resides.
The world knows wrong views.
He knows all purity through wrong views.
In the world, he knows all non - violence.
The five vows are bound to Dharma.
Through Dharma, he knows everything about the five vows.
He knows all suffering.
You know everything.
The world knows karma.
He knows all human beings.
Non - violence is known in Dharma through the five vows.
If the mind is happy, then the actions are happy.
Apamato saaya hohi, ma pamaaya kaare kwachi.
Non - violence is the supreme benefit, violence is highest non - benefit.
One who knows oneself knows the world; one's self is the supreme self.
May there be well - being for all, may there be peace for all and may all be virtuous.
Food is the essence of all life, therefore violence should not be practiced by anyone.
Listen, you talk a lot, think seriously; this is the mark of an intelligent person.
Where there is truth, there is violence; where there is non - violence, there Is truth; this is the highest dharma.
Take charity, take virtue.
May all be blessed.
Truth is the supreme happiness.
Whatever wrong I have done, I will do.
Even if you teach your children, they have no knowledge.
When you know yourself, you know everything.
Where there is love, there is happiness.
One who gives receives wealth.
Where there is friendship, there is happiness.
Meditate on yourself.
Compassion is the highest dharma, violence is the supreme sin.
Living beings - millions.
Wrong views are the cause of the world.
Greed is the root cause.
Seal - The supreme quality.
Non - violence is known in Dharma through the five great vows.
In the world, he knows everything about the five great vows.
He knows everything about the five vows.
In the world, the follower of five vows knows non - violence.