But, dear girl, If these two things aren't enough, You'd better stop being angry And forgive those who hurt your feelings.
You live here, I see you here, And you do well. Something about your absence Has made her feel like a widow.
In separation He is able to bear the pain of long absence, In loneliness He allows death to creep in.
Look! The plowman's son is fresh as a tender shoot Today. The plowshares are round like a heap of husks.
See how the God of Love, Who had struck at the crossroads With the arrow of his bow, Held it in thrall to the warrior's bow.
Look! A swarm of gnats is hovering Over her earrings That resemble pearls Placed on a palm leaf.
All over the horizon The travelers stare at the cloudy sky, Their eyes red And the moonbeams quivering As though they were clouds.
"Laughing at the man Who brushes past me With a broad smile, She says," "My husband would have done the same as me." ""
I will never forget how my heart melted at the sight of your face, When my mind was distracted with thoughts of you, And my heart shattered again.
You're the only one who loves me so much, I could not have done it without you.
Staring into the distance After an awkward separation, You sway, like a caged bird At the tips of its wings.
You sway, That limp limb grows as long as the stream of tears streaming down your face
Thinking how wretched it is To be sagging over your thighs After a long day of sulking, One cannot quite bring oneself to release one's anger.
You are not so much a fan of the moon as of the hot, sunny part of your body That, even in summer, gives pleasure to the unaided eyelid.
Whatever your lover likes, That's what kind of kisser he is, What you need to do to keep him happy And what you don't.
When he took me in his arms And kissed me on the mouth I slept soundly, I could not help but smell his hand.
Needle - eyed woman Sucking in her cupped hands Sweating with the pleasure of blowing bubbles, The sulking girl tosses around In a flicker of excitement.
Wretched girl, If you ask me what I mean, I will reply: I don't know which one.
The poor girl is now so full of sin That she does not want to start making love Every day She teaches herself how to make love Without growing weary
The weeping woman asks how you are, But says, "" There must be some one laughing at you.
Dozing off, Drunk on milk, Drinking water, Sweating all over, And still feeling nauseous Are some of my favorite things.
Stupid girl, Don't try to hide your feelings. Blind girl, you'll find them only with the help of a lamp.
Come, let me touch you, my dear. Don't get me wrong. What makes you think you know such a thing? It's only because you know how to behave.
The sound of the trumpet, The crash of the horn, And the fall of one's breasts Are also pleasures in themselves.
The thunderclap of a rainbow Supports the eyes of the beholder. When he embraces his lover The bracelets fall loose Upon his shoulders.
See how the gooseflesh hovers over the cowherd's feet, Like a banner proclaiming the joys of marriage.
As she turned to face him, His face darkening, She looked away in embarrassment But smiled, Her skirt wrapped tightly around her thighs.
Laughing and waving, Crying and moaning, Tears and sighs: Such is the way of a beautiful woman.
Don't touch me If you don't want to be touched. Stop dragging your feet And do not try to escape.
Resurrecting the fault On the part of the hunter Who suffered the brunt of the onslaught The warrior's name will also be repeated in the days to come.
Long - eyed girl, Her lips darting with excitement, Her hair hanging loose like a bracelet On her husband's shoulder, Seems to be sulking.
The stream is torrential, The river is swollen, The paths are steep, And the roads are impassable.
Tell me, am I right? He can die, he can live, But business as usual Is not my thing.
Foolish bee, You keep sweeping away the pearls From the jasmine's trunk, Laying bare its long necklace Of pearls. Who cares if you lose them too?
Her face was smeared with red ghee, Her breasts were strewn with gooseflesh, Like the nail marks on a peacock's tail.
Look! The travelers ask, The travelers groan, And the travelers wipe away their tears. The deer in my arms Can't take it anymore.
When the young bride turned her back on him, Her hands clasped in a tight embrace, They clung to each other's thighs.
Whatever pleasure you get From eating the fruit Of the mango, That too with a smile On your face, Will pay dividends.
Her breasts tremble As she embraces her husband's broad hips, Her thighs quiver, And her thighs twitch.
Ha ha, Why don't you do something about the burning stubble That is burning in the middle of the jasmine blossom?
On the return journey The traveler's daughter - in - law steps in front of him, Her round breasts quivering with excitement.
At last the landowner's wife arrived, His eyes closed, And the summer heat Wafting through the thickets That grew thicker around the house.
To spare oneself the consequences of sitting on top of one's lover, Who would ever forgive a person for straying into another's trap?
Loose - hanging hair, Lovely woman, Her eyes full of tears, Looks like a lotus Placed on the face of her lover
The rain tells the people That it is hot outside, And the clouds are thick. Except when they see me coming What can I do?
I beg of you Not to bend over Wherever you are, For I can feel your breath Running down my face.
I could not believe my eyes When I saw her weeping And her tears streamed down my cheeks.
When he came out of the house She was so anxious to leave That she said: "" I have nothing left to give you.
Suffering is the ultimate truth.
To be holy is to be victorious.
Non - violence is the supreme way of life.
Victory to Dharma.
In the world, wrong views are important.
I don't know wrong views.
He knows all life.
He knows all suffering.
Death is everything.
He knows everything through the five vows.
He knows all Dharma.
Everything is known through Dharma.
The follower of five vows knows everything.
Dharma knows all wrong views.
In the world, the observer of five great vows resides.
The world knows wrong views.
All purity is realized through wrong views.
In the world, he knows all non - violence.
The five vows are everything in Dharma.
Through Dharma, he knows everything about the five vows.
He knows all suffering.
You know everything.
The world knows karma.
He knows all human beings.
Non - violence is known in Dharma through the five vows.
One's mind is pure, one's actions are pure.
Apamato saaya hoi, ma pamaaya kaare kwachi.
Non - violence is the supreme good, violence is ultimate evil.
One who knows oneself knows the world, one who serves others is the supreme self.
May all have well - being, may all have peace, may All have virtue.
Drunkenness is the root of all life, therefore violence should not be practiced by anyone.
Listen, you speak a lot, think seriously; this is the mark of a wise man.
Where there is truth, there is non - violence; where there is Non - violence, it is truth; this is the highest dharma.
Donor the body, receive purification.
May all have well - being.
To speak the truth is the highest happiness.
Whatever wrong I have done, I will do.
Even if your children study, they will not be ignorant.
If you know yourself, you know everything.
Where there is love, there is happiness.
One who gives receives wealth.
Where there is friendship, there is happiness.
Meditate on yourself.
Compassion is the highest dharma, violence is the supreme sin.
Living beings - millions.
Wrong views are the cause of the world.
Greed is the first - inexhaustible - cause.
Seal - The quality is supreme.
The observer of five great vows knows non - violence in Dharma.
In the world, he knows everything through the five great vows.
He knows everything about the five vows.
In the world, the follower of five vows knows non - violence.