But both the doe and the stag agree that it is highly inauspicious For a man to sulk When he sees his wife's dark breasts.
You live in my heart, I see you live in yours, And someone who lives apart from you Has done me a favor.
Being separated from one another, Enduring separation, Like being possessed by a demon, It is impossible for one person to escape death.
Look at yo\1ः Your husband is fresh as a tender shoot, Like the jasmine shoot of a mango shoot.
Seeing clouds piling up in the west The gods turned their backs on her.
Look at that mango blossom Standing absolutely motionless On the lotus leaf. It looks like an eel hiding in a half - opened oyster shell.
All over the horizon, Visnu's rivals, Blind with gooseflesh, Slipping off and dying in the confusion of the Vindhya.
Laughing at the man who misbehaves, The farmer replies, "" I do. "" With a broad smile his wife replies.
Your face does not show the slightest trace of resentment. Yet, like a dead body, It starts to break down again.
You're the one who made me feel so good About yourself, But without you I would not be what I am.
Standing absolutely motionless On the very first day of his journey, You, dear girl, Rolled over and fixed him with a bandage.
You stare at her limp body As if you were watching the stream of tears Rolling down her face.
Why storm off Trailing your skirt behind you? Slow down! There's nothing left to do When you're angry.
You are not so much a fan of the moon as of the hot, scorching summer nights when the pleasures of sex appeal to the most sophisticated of lovers.
Who is to blame? Whatever part of your body he stares at, What is there for him to sulk about?
When he took me in his arms And kissed me on the mouth I slept soundly, I could not help smelling the scent of his hand.
Sucking in her breath, The poor girl bemoans the scent of wilting acacia flowers, Like a column of smoke rising from an old bangle.
Wrapped in her feelings of resentment She turned her lovely face away From you, But did not dare to ask who I was And what I said.
The poor girl is now so busy making love That she has learned how to hide her feelings every day
The weeping woman asks how you are, But there is no one to tell us how to smile.
Dozing off, Stretching your limbs, Foolish girl, You're in a muddle. But still manage to escape, So I must have done something stupid.
Stupid girl, Don't be so naïve: Your eyes are glued to your face, They can see you are in the dark, Like a lamp hovering over you.
No, I'm off, My husband isn't. Don't get me wrong, you silly bitch. What do you mean, You stupid bitch? If my husband's still chaste, I can't work.
The touch of a trumpet, The sound of a lute, And the fall of one's breasts Are also pleasures to behold.
Covered all over with gooseflesh, Visibly distressed by the tears welling up in her eyes, She covered the whole body With her hands When she tried to kiss his cheek.
Look! At the flock of heifers Flying out of the hole in that tree, You'll find a bunch of peacock's feathers Hanging down from its trunk.
Seeing his wife's face grow pale As he bade her farewell The young man smiled shyly As he took her in his arms.
Laughing without raising her voice, Scolding without tears, This is the path of a virtuous woman.
Don't cover your face with your shawl. Stop dragging your feet And gently lower yourself into the water.
Resurrecting the wrong side of the fence, Which led to the collapse of the fortifications, The mother of the warrior put up with her son's humiliation However long it took.
Drenched by the sweat Streaming off her lashes, The girl's thick, fragrant hair Looks like a crimson lotus Placed on top of the nail marks on her hip.
Long - lashed, dazzling white, black and slanting - The days are fleeting As long as you don't have to bend over.
Tell me, am I right? He can die, he can live. "" This isn't the case with Cineham.
Drenched by tears, Scorched by the rays of the sun, You forsake the waters of the Goda, But only if you manage to trap the jasmine.
Look! Her face is smeared with red ghee, Like the nail mark on the cheek of a peacock's tail.
Look! The travelers ask: "" Are you smiling? "" And when they do, I can't help but smile. The deer in my trunk Try to escape.
When the young bride took to her arms To welcome her new husband, The bracelet went from her to his offended wife's hand.
Whichever way you look at it, That way you'll get a good laugh Out of it, Like the fruit of a mango shoot.
Her breasts, Touched by the gooseflesh Rising from the buttocks Of her husband's offenses, Resemble like a banner Announcing her immodesty.
Ha, ha, why didn't you do something about the jasmine That burnt to ashes In the middle of the kankelika blossom?
When the women start to arrive The bracelets fall loose From the bracelets on her wrists Like a banner proclaiming the arrival of spring.
At the end of it All the women sit astride their husbands, Eyes closed, And in the heat of the scorching heat The walls of their houses Roar like a thunderclap.
When separated from her lover She does not complain to her husband About the consequences of her actions, But tells him How will I ever make him happy?
Reflected in the woman's cheek Covered with fresh tooth marks, The girl's eyes were glued to her bright and shiny cheeks.
Ryan told me that people kill when they are hot, That without my blessing Why don't we grow older?
Unsure when you would take me in her arms I bowed my head And covered her face with kisses as I tried to kiss her lips.
I will never forget How, at the sight of him, I looked at him With such longing That I could not remember a single word he said.
He came out of the house, took me in his arms, and said: "" I do believe you have something against me.
Pain is the supreme truth.
Be holy and win.
Non - violence is the supreme way of life.
Dharma is victory.
In this world, wrong views are important.
I do not know wrong views.
He knows everything.
He knows all suffering.
Death is everything.
He knows everything through the five vows.
He knows all Dharma.
Everything is known through Dharma.
The follower of five vows knows everything.
Dharma knows all wrong views.
In the world, the observer of five great vows resides.
The world knows wrong views.
He knows all impurity.
In the world, he knows all non - violence.
The five vows are bound to Dharma.
Everything is known through the five vows in Dharma.
He knows all suffering.
You know everything.
The world knows karma.
He knows all human beings.
Non - violence is known in Dharma through the five vows.
If the mind is happy, then the actions are happy.
Do not sin, do not sin.
Non - violence is the supreme good, violence is ultimate evil.
One who knows oneself knows the world; one is the supreme self.
May there be well - being for all, may there be peace for all and may all be virtuous.
All living beings desire drink, therefore violence should not be practiced by anyone.
Listen, you talk a lot, think seriously; this is the mark of an intelligent person.
Where there is truth, there is violence; where there is non - violence, there Is truth; this is the highest dharma.,
Take charity, take virtue.
May all be blessed.
Truth is the supreme happiness.
Whatever wrong I have done, I will do.
Even if your children study, they will not be ignorant.
When you know yourself, you know everything.
Where there is love, there is happiness.
One who gives receives wealth.
Where there is friendship, there is happiness.
Meditate on yourself.
Compassion is the highest dharma, violence is the supreme sin.
The soul has millions.
Wrongly naming a thing is the cause of the world.
Greed is the root cause.
Seal - The supreme quality.
Non - violence is known in Dharma through the five great vows.
In the world, he knows everything about the five great vows.
He knows everything about the five vows.
In the world, the follower of five vows knows non - violence.