After the quarrel neither give in But feigning sleep, lie still, Hold their breath and listen. Who will win the bout?
She cherishes her heart Because you live in it, Her eyes Because with them she can gaze at you, Even her body Because it grows thin in your absence.
Hope helps one bear The burning fire of separation From the man one loves. But, mother, when the man one loves Lives in the same village yet keeps away, That is worse than death.
Only today he departed, And today his women stay up late Dyeing the banks of the Goda Yellow with turmeric soap.
With cooing doves hidden high up among the rafters The temple groans like a man suffering from cramp.
Look! A flock of parrots falling from the sky Like a necklace of rubies and emeralds Slipping from the throat of Sri in heaven.
With clouds torn to shreds And dispersed in all directions —A few still sticking to its slopes— The Vindhya Range seems to shed its skin.
The attractive wife, Who had just given birth for the first time, Made everyone laugh When she kept on saying that she had had enough Of being called her husband's favorite.
Every time the moon is full The Creator takes it apart again To refashion it in such a way That it might match your face.
You fool, My own life means more to me than you do. Therefore, if I give in to your anger It is only because without you I have no life.
Like a bird in a cage Moving from one gap to the next, With trembling eye She peeps through the fence As you walk past.
To watch you As you walked away She twisted round so far The tears could be seen Streaming down her back.
With those damned breasts Like the two bumps on a young elephant's forehead, Firm, full and prominent, pressing against each other, She can hardly breathe Let alone move
Sandal paste does not work as well As the wild delight of a tight embrace, Which, even on the hottest summer day, Succeeds in allaying a couple's fever.
Slender girl, The parts of your body that used to be plump Have become thin, And those that were thin Are now tiny. What is the use of keeping so aloof?
Trembling and bouncing with excitement, She holds a handful of colored powder To throw at her lover, But it has turned into perfumed water.
In winter one can recognize a poor man By his tattered, threadbare clothes Reeking of cow-dung fires and brown with smoke.
When people ask me, In your presence, Why my body grows thinner by the day, I don't know what to say to whom.
The poor thing is a decent girl Yet in one day, you sinner, You have taught her to languish, To yawn and to weep.
You fool, When I asked what had really happened The girl's reply brought tears to my eyes: The way she joked and swore That there was nothing to tell
My heart, If you have to burn, burn, If you have to boil, boil, And if you have to break, break. As for me, I am completely through with that traitor
Child, if your heart is set on secret passion, Don't go out in the dark, For the darker it is The more clearly visible you will be, Like the flame of a lamp
You're right, I am a loose woman And you are virtuous. So you stay clear Before you tarnish your reputation. But I at least don't lust after a barber Like the wife of someone we know
Prominent and pressing close, Decorated with fresh scars, their duty done, Like two warriors, a woman's breasts Are handsome even as they collapse
Decent wives, who feel abashed When love is over But cannot find their skirts, Hastily cover their naked thighs By embracing their husbands once again.
See how the young cow makes plain her favored position: In the middle of the pen She rubs her eyelid Against the horn of the vicious bull.
When her husband told her to come to bed She looked away And, with an embarrassed laugh, Wrapped her skirt twice around her thighs.
Instead of criticism smiles, Instead of grievances extreme politeness, Instead of quarrels tears, Such is the way of good wives.
That she has come all swathed in black Shouldn't deter you. Even a tight breast band Is prized off in the heat of love.
Mother, What's it to me If the Narmadā lets the elephant bull Beat her again and again with his trunk And scrape and squeeze both her banks?
Drunken bees sit motionless On the petals of the white lotus Like specks of darkness Forgotten by the rays of the moon.
The crows on the boundary fence, With their faces bedraggled, their wings drooping, their necks sunken, Look as though they had been impaled.
"""Don't die, only keep alive And you'll see him once again""? That may be practical advice But it's not the way of love."
O bee, One moment you hover above the lotuses, The next you brush against the mimosa, Then you stay glued to the jasmine. Perhaps the trumpetflowers will cure you Of this fickleness.
Look at her breasts Powdered with the flour She grinds for the festival, Like two white geese sitting in the shade Of the lotus of her face.
Trader, For hides of the spotted deer You'll have to go elsewhere. Our young hunter No longer bends his bow To shoot deer.
Feigning sleep The husband turned over And let a trembling hand fall as if by accident On the knot of his young wife's skirt Which she held firmly between her thighs.
Whatever the mind With the pen of hope Writes on the tablet of the heart Fate, like a naughty child, Wipes out with a secret smile.
Little girl, You can still play bunny hops But don't go walking around naked: The youths of the village Know the mother by the daughter.
Do you know, my daughter, What the poor bee did In the absence of the jasmine flower? He threw himself into the red asoka flowers As into a fire.
As the wife embraced her husband Who was about to depart, The bracelets slipped from her slender arms Clasped around his neck And fell at his feet like shackles.
In summer the rattle of the grindstone Makes it seem that the houses are snoring While the doors, their eyes, remain shut And the servants make no stir inside.
Left on her own, The poor woman has grown very thin, The summer is almost over, And her hardhearted husband is still abroad: I don't know how this will end.
Intently the husband gazed at the stream of tears First reflecting the color of his angry wife's eyes, Then of her cheeks, and then of her lips. It looked like a rainbow, Except that it was straight
People say that summer nights are short. But I can't understand why they last so long In the absence of my beloved.
What he wanted me to say to you I didn't catch Because he stammered so much And sighed such burning sighs.
When he's not here My mind is full of his thousand offenses, But the moment I see him, Dear friend, I can't think of a single one
She will go to his house, Then wait her chance, Then approach him, Then say what she has to say. But what will she get for reply?
Suffering is the ultimate truth.
Purity leads to victory.
Non-violence is the greatest for all beings.
Victory through Dharma.
In the world, delusion is vast.
I do not follow wrong views.
The soul knows everything.
He knows all suffering.
Everything ends in death.
He knows all the five vows.
He knows all Dharma.
He knows all Dharma.,
The one who follows the five vows knows everything.,
He knows all Dharma and wrong views.,
In the world, the observer of the five great vows is everything.,
In the world, he knows wrong views.,
He knows all purity and wrong views.,
In the world, everything is known through non-violence.,
The five vows reside in Dharma.,
"In Dharma, he knows everything through the five vows."""
He knows all suffering.,
He knows all existence.,
He knows karma in the world.,
He knows all human knowledge.,
Non-violence is known through the five vows in Dharma.,
When the mind is peaceful, actions become more joyful.,
Always be vigilant, never be negligent anywhere.,
Non-violence is the supreme gain, violence is the supreme loss.
One who knows oneself knows the world; the self is indeed the supreme self.,
May there be welfare for all, may there be peace for all, may there be virtue for all.,
Life is dear to all beings, therefore violence should not be committed by anyone.,
Listen much, speak little, think deeply; this is the characteristic of a wise person.,
Where there is truth, there is non-violence; where there is non-violence, there is truth; this is the supreme dharma.,
Give charity, gain merit.,
May there be well-being for all.,
Speaking truth is the highest pleasure.,
Whatever is difficult for me, I shall do.
One doesn't become wise just by reading books.,
One who knows oneself knows everything.,
Where there is love, there is happiness.,
One who gives charity gains wealth.,
Where there is friendship, there is happiness.,
Make yourself concentrated.,
Compassion for life is the highest dharma, violence is the greatest sin.,
The soul is characterized by consciousness.,
Wrong belief is the cause of worldly existence.,
Greed is the cause of all misfortunes.,
Virtuous conduct is the supreme treasure.
The observer of the five great vows knows non-violence in Dharma.,
He knows everything through the five great vows in the world.,
In the world, the five vows are known to be everything.,
In the world, non-violence is known through the five vows.,
