He who, in the world, comprehends and renounces these causes of sin, is called a reward-knowing sage (muni). Thus I say.
About this the Revered One has taught the truth (comprehension and renunciation). For the sake of the splendour, honour, and glory of this life, for the sake of birth, death, and final liberation, for the removal of pain, all these causes of sin are at work, which are to be comprehended and renounced in this world.
O long-lived (Jambuswami)! I (Sudharman) have heard the following discourse from the venerable (Mahavira).
He believes in soul, believes in the world, believes in reward, believes in action (acknowledged to be our own doing in such judgments as these): 'I did it;' 'I shall cause another to do it;' 'I shall allow another to do it.' In the world, these are all the causes of sin, which must be comprehended and renounced.
Now this is what one should know, either by one's own knowledge or through the instruction of the highest (i.e. a Tîrthakara), or having heard it from others: that he descended in an eastern direction, or in any other direction (particularised above). Similarly, some know that their soul is born again and again, that it arrives in this or that direction, whatever direction that may be.
Here many do not remember whether they have descended in an eastern direction (when they were born in this world), or in a southern, or in a western, or in a northern direction, or in the direction from above, or in the direction from below, or in a direction intermediate (between the cardinal points), or in a direction intermediate between these (and the cardinal points). Similarly, some do not know whether their soul is born again and again or not; nor what they were formerly, nor what they will become after having died and left this world.
A man that does not comprehend and renounce the causes of sin, descends in a cardinal or intermediate direction, wanders to all cardinal or intermediate directions, is born again and again in manifold births, experiences all painful feelings.
The creatures of this world are suffering. They lack spiritual qualities and lack discernment. Their ignorance makes it difficult for them to attain self-realization. These ignorant creatures experience pain and suffering in this world. Eager for pleasures like sexual pleasure, they inflict pain and suffering on other creatures in many places.
Said on the seeker...
Lord Mahavir Swami has provided the teaching of discernment on this subject. A person commits violence against earthly beings, instigates violence by others, or approves of those committing violence, either for the sake of 1. this life, 2. for veneration, praise, honor, and worship, 3. to be free from the cycle of birth and death, or 4. to counteract suffering. All these violent tendencies are harmful to the individual and lead to abodhi (unconsciousness), meaning the lack of enlightenment in the form of knowledge, philosophy, and character.
Earth-bodied creatures live in different bodies, that is, each of them has a body. Being shy, the self-seekers live a life of restraint, feeling hesitant in committing violence. You can differentiate them! Some sages are just disguised. Even while saying "I am a renunciate of home", they commit violence against earth-bodied creatures with various types of weapons. Along with violence against earth-bodied creatures, they also commit violence against many types of dependent creatures.
That liberation-seeking soul never prohibits the existence of any fire body. It does not deny even its own soul, because one who deny fire, it deny itself. He who deny himself, denies the world of fire bodies.
That is what I call (the form of Angar). One who is Angar by conduct, whose life is full of simplicity, who is moving on the path of salvation, who has given up deceit and fraud, is called Angar.
I also say something else: O human! Many other creatures live in the shelter of water. Furthermore, in Jain philosophy, water is called a living being. Reflect on the weapons of Apakaya. God has described many weapons of Apakaya. Violence caused by Apakaya is not just violence, it is also theft.
Having understood the bondage, one should acquire the knowledge and break it. What did Mahavira considered as bondage? And what is to be known to break (the bondage)?
A foolish person who is born in a family and where he lives gets afflicted with attachment by many others and among others.
One who himself/herself kills the animals or causes others to harm them or approves of the killers (slaughterers) increases his/her own enmity.
One who possesses living or non-living things, or even frivolous things like chaff or one who approve of others who do it, in this way, does not become free from sorrows.
Like money and siblings, all this does not protect. Doubting similarly about life, one must become free from the karma.
(A person) considers himself valiant until he sees the victor. For example, Shishupala (saw) the steadfast warrior (Krishna) fighting.